How can you solve addition problems?
What do you see?
Yellow counters and red counters.
How many are yellow?
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
There are 8 yellow counters.
How many are red?
1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
There are 5 red counters.
What does it mean to put the counters together?
When you put yellow and red counters together,
you make one group of counters.
The circle is around all of the counters.
It shows that the counters are being put together.
Here are the same group of counters.
What is different?
The counters are lined up and they are in 10-frames.
How can you tell the counters are being put together?
2 red counters move to fill the first 10-frame.
What does the equation tell?
It shows the number in each group and how many in all
when they are put together.
8 plus 5 equals 13.
Counting on is another way to find how many in all.
Look at the number line.
The number line shows 8 plus 5 equals 13.
Start at one part, 8, and count on the other part, 5.
The sum is 13.
The number line and the equation both show that 8 plus 5 equals 13.